---
layout: page
title: "Join the Beta"
category: guides
date: 2012-01-27 14:57:06
---

If you want to help improve the quality of our releases, you can join our beta program. We will provide pre-release versions of the Publisher before official releases. You can download them, test them and report any issues you encounter.

## How to Participate

To get beta releases, you need our [Podlove Beta Tester Plugin](https://github.com/podlove/podlove-beta-tester). It is _not_ available through WordPress. You need to download it directly.

<a href="https://github.com/podlove/podlove-beta-tester/archive/master.zip" class="btn btn-primary">Download Beta Tester</a>

In WordPress, go to `Plugins > Add New` and choose "Upload Plugin". Then select the zip file you just downloaded.

Once the plugin is activated, there is a new menu entry "Podlove Beta Tester" under the "Settings" menu. Navigate there to manage Beta Releases.

## Report Issues & Discuss Changes

If you encounter any bugs or want to discuss changes, please join our community at [community.podlove.org](https://community.podlove.org/c/podlove-publisher).

## Questions & Answers

### Is it safe?

No. We recommend to only use betas in test environments, **not** on your actual podcast site. If a beta breaks your system, you're on your own.

### Can I switch back from a beta to the last stable release?

Yes, with caveats. When you activate a beta, the stable plugin is backed up. Then when you disable the beta, the old plugin files are restored and you're back in stable land. _However_, in rare cases the beta _might_ have introduced backwards-incompatible data migrations. We will warn you within the beta plugin, though.

### How does it work? Where do the beta files come from?

The beta plugin changes the source for plugin-updates inside WordPress. So instead of asking the WordPress plugin repository for updates, it will ask a server maintained by us. You will still get updates through the usual WordPress update interface.
